webroot/modules/contrib/pathauto/README.md, before:

#Pathauto

If you are developing for this module, have a look at pathauto.api.php.

##Description

The Pathauto module provides support functions for other modules to
automatically generate aliases based on appropriate criteria, with a
central settings path for site administrators.

Implementations are provided for core entity types: content, taxonomy terms,
and users (including blogs and forum pages).

Pathauto also provides a way to delete large numbers of aliases.  This feature
is available at  Administer > Configuration > Search and metadata > URL aliases >
Delete aliases.

##Benefits

Besides making the page address more reflective of its content than
"node/138", it's important to know that modern search engines give
heavy weight to search terms which appear in a page's URL. By
automatically using keywords based directly on the page content in the URL,
relevant search engine hits for your page can be significantly
enhanced.

##Notices

Pathauto just adds URL aliases to content, users, and taxonomy terms.
Because it's an alias, the standard Drupal URL (for example node/123 or
taxonomy/term/1) will still function as normal.  If you have external links
to your site pointing to standard Drupal URLs, or hardcoded links in a module,
template, content or menu which point to standard Drupal URLs it will bypass
the alias set by Pathauto.

There are reasons you might not want two URLs for the same content on your
site. If this applies to you, please note that you will need to update any
hard coded links in your content or blocks.

If you use the "system path" (i.e. node/10) for menu items and settings like
that, Drupal will replace it with the url_alias.

For external links, you might want to consider the Path Redirect or
Global Redirect modules, which allow you to set forwarding either per item or
across the site to your aliased URLs.

###URLs (not) Getting Replaced With Aliases:
Please bear in mind that only URLs passed through Drupal's Drupal's URL and
Link APIs will be replaced with their aliases during page output. If
a module or your template contains hardcoded links, such as
'href="node/$node->nid"', those won't get replaced with their corresponding
aliases.

## Disabling Pathauto for a specific content type (or taxonomy)

When the pattern for a content type is left blank, the default pattern will be
used. But if the default pattern is also blank, Pathauto will be disabled
for that content type.

##Credits:

The original module combined the functionality of Mike Ryan's autopath with
Tommy Sundstrom's path_automatic.

Significant enhancements were contributed by jdmquin @ www.bcdems.net.

Matt England added the tracker support (tracker support has been removed in
recent changes).

Other suggestions and patches contributed by the Drupal community.

Current maintainers:

- Dave Reid - http://www.davereid.net
- Greg Knaddison - http://www.knaddison.com
- Mike Ryan - http://mikeryan.name
- Frederik 'Freso' S. Olesen - http://freso.dk

Commit message:

Built Deployable files from Drush make * d93a067 Merge branch 'master' into production * 880fce1 Issue #38135: Timeline on maps widget. * 873dd49 Issue #37550: Maps widget. * da7059b Issue #37628: Custom Views Relationships. * 2651f73 Issue #37628: Custom Views Relationships. * 9e6bc95 Issue #37614: Views filter for 'events'. * af4c616 Issue #37900: URL paths.

webroot/modules/contrib/pathauto/README.md, after:

#Pathauto

If you are developing for this module, have a look at pathauto.api.php.

##Description

The Pathauto module provides support functions for other modules to
automatically generate aliases based on appropriate criteria, with a
central settings path for site administrators.

Implementations are provided for core entity types: content, taxonomy terms,
and users (including blogs and forum pages).

Pathauto also provides a way to delete large numbers of aliases.  This feature
is available at  Administer > Configuration > Search and metadata > URL aliases >
Delete aliases.

##Benefits

Besides making the page address more reflective of its content than
"node/138", it's important to know that modern search engines give
heavy weight to search terms which appear in a page's URL. By
automatically using keywords based directly on the page content in the URL,
relevant search engine hits for your page can be significantly
enhanced.

##Notices

Pathauto just adds URL aliases to content, users, and taxonomy terms.
Because it's an alias, the standard Drupal URL (for example node/123 or
taxonomy/term/1) will still function as normal.  If you have external links
to your site pointing to standard Drupal URLs, or hardcoded links in a module,
template, content or menu which point to standard Drupal URLs it will bypass
the alias set by Pathauto.

There are reasons you might not want two URLs for the same content on your
site. If this applies to you, please note that you will need to update any
hard coded links in your content or blocks.

If you use the "system path" (i.e. node/10) for menu items and settings like
that, Drupal will replace it with the url_alias.

For external links, you might want to consider the Path Redirect or
Global Redirect modules, which allow you to set forwarding either per item or
across the site to your aliased URLs.

###URLs (not) Getting Replaced With Aliases:
Please bear in mind that only URLs passed through Drupal's Drupal's URL and
Link APIs will be replaced with their aliases during page output. If
a module or your template contains hardcoded links, such as
'href="node/$node->nid"', those won't get replaced with their corresponding
aliases.

## Disabling Pathauto for a specific content type (or taxonomy)

When the pattern for a content type is left blank, the default pattern will be
used. But if the default pattern is also blank, Pathauto will be disabled
for that content type.

## Installing Pathauto
1. Install the module as normal, note that there are two dependencies.
2. Configure the module at admin/config/search/path/patterns - add a new pattern by creating by clicking "Add Pathauto pattern".
3. Fill out "Path pattern" with fx [node:title], choose which content types this applies to, give it a label (the name) and save it.
4. When you save new content from now on, it should automatically be assigned an alternative URL

##Credits:

The original module combined the functionality of Mike Ryan's autopath with
Tommy Sundstrom's path_automatic.

Significant enhancements were contributed by jdmquin @ www.bcdems.net.

Matt England added the tracker support (tracker support has been removed in
recent changes).

Other suggestions and patches contributed by the Drupal community.

Current maintainers:

- Dave Reid - http://www.davereid.net
- Greg Knaddison - http://www.knaddison.com
- Mike Ryan - http://mikeryan.name
- Frederik 'Freso' S. Olesen - http://freso.dk
